
Hex is a local roaster and makes the best coffee in my opinion. Their flagship is in Camp North End but they also run and use the same coffee at Stable Hand (South End) and Fly Kid Fly (Ballantyne)

Platform in Wesley Heights is also really good. And past that, Night Swim is solid and has a few locations around the city

I live in NoDa and hit Smelly Cat.
The people are nice but incredibly slow, your order-ahead order will never be ready on time, and the food sucks.
But something keeps bringing me back. Mix of good vibes to start the day plus they make a pretty strong cold brew

what part(s) will you be staying in? i’ve basically tried every cafe in the charlotte metro area, i’ll give you more specific recs depending on where you’ll be!

night swim/not just/undercurrent coffee are very popular charlotte local chains (they’re all owned by the same people)

backyard brew in dilworth is a bit of a trip for me, but the drinks are all amazing and owned by a super sweet family!

hilltop coffee is a new favorite of mine in north charlotte, also quite a trip for me (down in south charlotte). this might not matter to you they have a dairy-free pistachio syrup that is to die for, which is not easy for me to find

if you’re the type to spend hours reading, archive clt in west charlotte will definitely be for you! the cafe celebrates black history and has a ton of books and memorabilia

Are you looking for the best tasting coffee? Nice vibe for hanging out? Quirky coffee shop with personality?

For coffee, Night Swim has several locations and good coffee. They usually have seating, kind of a pretentious vibe.

I haven’t been there, but used to live near Giddy Goat in Plaza, and it always gets good reviews, nice place to hang out and is in a fun area you can walk around/shop/have lunch or dinner.

Amelie’s gets some hate but it’s a funky French cafe with a couple of locations with good food and desserts, kind of pricey. Coffee is good.

Smelly Cat is in NoDa, which is also a fun neighborhood for strolling. Not the best coffee but a fun vibe.

There are dozens more independent coffee shops, plus chains like Starbucks, which does have Charlotte mugs for its city series, if that’s your main goal.


I love Brakeman’s in Matthews

