Being a coffee-addicted college student, I’m always looking for the next best place to study or get homework done that has the right vibe and the best coffee. This need for caffeine has led me on a coffee journey all over the area surrounding UNCC, which boasts some of the best cafes I’ve been to, and if you want to follow the same path I take to get the best cup of coffee, keep reading!

Summit Coffee

Summit Coffee is an NC-based cafe with locations all over Charlotte, and only a 15-minute drive from UNCC’s campus. Summit is all about community, inclusivity, and sustainability, as they are partnered with 1% For the Planet. Summit has got to take first place for my favorite coffee shop interior, their design is very neutral with hints of blue and plants placed thoughtfully throughout the store, which makes it a calm place to study.

Now, let’s move on to the coffee…

Summit has a wide variety of options on its menu, with unique coffee syrups that have just been added such as brown butter almond, blueberry, and winter spice. My personal favorite is their lavender syrup. They also have a non-coffee menu with delicious teas and lemonades.

Summit Coffee on the Plaza: 2501 The Plaza Suite 6, Charlotte, NC 28205

Waterbean Coffee

Waterbean Coffee is located in Uptown Charlotte and has some of the most diverse flavoring options I’ve seen. I’ve tried out their pumpkin spice, caramel, and peanut butter flavors, but the best is their snickerdoodle iced latte, hands down. If you enjoy people-watching like me, the Uptown location offers great views of the city and is a great place to settle down to do work. Waterbean has locations all over in Hickory, Huntersville, Cornelius, S and N Tryon, Whitehall, Park Road, and even Vietnam! The owner, Tony Vo, was born in Vietnam and graduated from UNC Charlotte in 2004 with a degree in engineering, making it a Niner hotspot.

Waterbean Coffee Uptown Location: 300 S Tryon St Ste 150, Charlotte, NC 28202

Olivia Fey

Amelie’s French Bakery Amelie’s French Bakery is one of my favorite places to go for lunch, hang out with friends, or do homework. The inside transports you to a French cafe, even down to the Eiffel tower sculpture. Once inside, you can choose from dozens of pastry options such as macarons, croissants, brownies, cookies, etc. They have a large breakfast and lunch menu, my personal favorites are the chicken salad croissant and the French dip sandwich with an iced salted caramel cafe mocha-a must try if you love sweet lattes as much as I do. Amelie’s has a location near campus in NODA, and additional locations in Park Road, Rock Hill, and Carmel Commons. Amelie’s NODA Location: 136 E 36th St, Charlotte, NC 28205 Olivia Fey The Percantile and Creamery The Percantile and Creamery is a coffee and ice cream cafe located in Concord Mills, NC just ten minutes from campus. It’s a great study environment with lots of options for food and drinks. The Percantile has a unique coffee selection, my favorite drink is the Bees Knees, a honey and cinnamon latte. On top of ice cream and coffee, they also serve desserts, beer, and wine. A must-try if you’re near UNC Charlotte! The Percantile and Creamery Location: 8635 Concord Mills Boulevard, Concord, NC 28027 The Giddy Goat The Giddy Goat is my most recently discovered coffee shop, and I have to say I was very impressed and will be back as soon as possible. The Giddy Goat is located at The Plaza, parking is easy because they have their own parking lot. The most unique part about the experience is that they serve empanadas as well as coffee! I had to try the empanada coffee combo, so I ordered an iced cinnamon latte and The Patagonia, an empanada filled with beef, red peppers, onions, and potatoes. I’ve never had an empanada before, but it was warm, toasty, and flavorful, I’ll be returning to try all their flavors. The inside has two floors, the upstairs you can find by using the staircase at the back of the store, and it’s got plenty of seating and even a fireplace. The whole cafe had a lounge-like feel, with plenty of plush chairs to sit in, making it a comfy place to get some work done. Spoon Tip : The Giddy Goat even offers Tango dancing on Tuesday’s 8 PM-11 PM for $10 and an intro class at 7 for $5 and yoga on Wednesdays at 7 AM! The Giddy Goat Location: 1217 The Plaza, Charlotte, NC 28205 Thanks for reading along to discover the best coffee shops near UNC Charlotte for studying! If you tried any of them, let us know @spoon__uncc on Instagram! Restaurant Review Wellness

Amelie’s French Bakery

Amelie’s French Bakery is one of my favorite places to go for lunch, hang out with friends, or do homework. The inside transports you to a French cafe, even down to the Eiffel tower sculpture. Once inside, you can choose from dozens of pastry options such as macarons, croissants, brownies, cookies, etc. They have a large breakfast and lunch menu, my personal favorites are the chicken salad croissant and the French dip sandwich with an iced salted caramel cafe mocha-a must try if you love sweet lattes as much as I do. Amelie’s has a location near campus in NODA, and additional locations in Park Road, Rock Hill, and Carmel Commons.

Amelie’s NODA Location: 136 E 36th St, Charlotte, NC 28205

Olivia Fey

The Percantile and Creamery The Percantile and Creamery is a coffee and ice cream cafe located in Concord Mills, NC just ten minutes from campus. It’s a great study environment with lots of options for food and drinks. The Percantile has a unique coffee selection, my favorite drink is the Bees Knees, a honey and cinnamon latte. On top of ice cream and coffee, they also serve desserts, beer, and wine. A must-try if you’re near UNC Charlotte! The Percantile and Creamery Location: 8635 Concord Mills Boulevard, Concord, NC 28027 The Giddy Goat The Giddy Goat is my most recently discovered coffee shop, and I have to say I was very impressed and will be back as soon as possible. The Giddy Goat is located at The Plaza, parking is easy because they have their own parking lot. The most unique part about the experience is that they serve empanadas as well as coffee! I had to try the empanada coffee combo, so I ordered an iced cinnamon latte and The Patagonia, an empanada filled with beef, red peppers, onions, and potatoes. I’ve never had an empanada before, but it was warm, toasty, and flavorful, I’ll be returning to try all their flavors. The inside has two floors, the upstairs you can find by using the staircase at the back of the store, and it’s got plenty of seating and even a fireplace. The whole cafe had a lounge-like feel, with plenty of plush chairs to sit in, making it a comfy place to get some work done. Spoon Tip : The Giddy Goat even offers Tango dancing on Tuesday’s 8 PM-11 PM for $10 and an intro class at 7 for $5 and yoga on Wednesdays at 7 AM! The Giddy Goat Location: 1217 The Plaza, Charlotte, NC 28205 Thanks for reading along to discover the best coffee shops near UNC Charlotte for studying! If you tried any of them, let us know @spoon__uncc on Instagram! Restaurant Review Wellness

The Percantile and Creamery

The Percantile and Creamery is a coffee and ice cream cafe located in Concord Mills, NC just ten minutes from campus. It’s a great study environment with lots of options for food and drinks. The Percantile has a unique coffee selection, my favorite drink is the Bees Knees, a honey and cinnamon latte. On top of ice cream and coffee, they also serve desserts, beer, and wine. A must-try if you’re near UNC Charlotte!

The Percantile and Creamery Location: 8635 Concord Mills Boulevard, Concord, NC 28027

The Giddy Goat

The Giddy Goat is my most recently discovered coffee shop, and I have to say I was very impressed and will be back as soon as possible. The Giddy Goat is located at The Plaza, parking is easy because they have their own parking lot. The most unique part about the experience is that they serve empanadas as well as coffee! I had to try the empanada coffee combo, so I ordered an iced cinnamon latte and The Patagonia, an empanada filled with beef, red peppers, onions, and potatoes. I’ve never had an empanada before, but it was warm, toasty, and flavorful, I’ll be returning to try all their flavors. The inside has two floors, the upstairs you can find by using the staircase at the back of the store, and it’s got plenty of seating and even a fireplace. The whole cafe had a lounge-like feel, with plenty of plush chairs to sit in, making it a comfy place to get some work done.

Spoon Tip : The Giddy Goat even offers Tango dancing on Tuesday’s 8 PM-11 PM for $10 and an intro class at 7 for $5 and yoga on Wednesdays at 7 AM!

The Giddy Goat Location: 1217 The Plaza, Charlotte, NC 28205

Thanks for reading along to discover the best coffee shops near UNC Charlotte for studying! If you tried any of them, let us know @spoon__uncc on Instagram!

Restaurant Review

Wellness