Most days, you’ll find me brewing my morning coffee at home with my Chemex . However, there are times when I like to treat myself—or, more likely, find myself in need of an emergency coffee while out and about.

As I stand in line, I often think, “Why spend $6 on a coffee in my home city when I can save that money for a $6 coffee while traveling?” Yet, I also recognize the importance of supporting my own community, just as I support the communities of others through travel and writing about it here.

Today, I’m excited to highlight some wonderful coffee shops right here in Charlotte. So the next time you find yourself in my city and in desperate need of a pick-me-up, you’ll have a list of vetted local shops to love, rather than turning to the well-known chains.

But first, coffee a little transparency:

HOW THIS GUIDE WAS CREATED

Each of these coffee shops was handpicked by me after at least two visits (though for most, it was many more) to give me ample time to assess. Not every coffee shop I’ve visited in Charlotte has made the cut, but you won’t see me criticizing them either. Essentially, the coffee shops on this list are ones I’d recommend first if a friend asked me to meet for a cup.

Personal preferences are naturally at play here. If it helps, my typical coffee orders are a fresh drip or pour-over, a cortado, or, if something piques my interest, a seasonal specialty latte with oat milk. Blended coffees aren’t really my thing, and I don’t like overly sweetened beverages (you won’t catch me with a sugar packet, but you will spot me adding a splash of half-and-half).

I mention this not to sound like a coffee snob—goodness knows there are already too many of those—but to help you decide where to spend your hard-earned cash. Basically, if you’re looking for one of those saccharine Dunkin’ orders from TikTok , this guide might not be much help to you.

While the quality of the coffee is my top criterion for inclusion on this list, I can’t neglect the atmosphere. A smooth and efficient ordering system for to-go drinks is just as vital to the coffee shop experience as the availability of outlets and comfy chairs for getting work done or catching up with friends.

Oh, one more thing—I don’t usually include chains in my roundups, but we are lucky to have a few branches of wonderful regional and smaller coffee shops in our area too. So while you won’t see any mermaids on this list, you may spot a few out-of-towners.

Phew! I need a little coffee after all of that, so let’s get right down to it:

MY FAVORITE COFFEE SHOPS IN CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

Backyard Brew

If you’ve ever driven down East Boulevard and spotted locals spilling out onto one lawn in particular, reading books and sipping coffee, you might have assumed at first glance that this was someone’s house. Indeed, Backyard Brew does feel like Dilworth’s front lawn, and it’s not just because of the setting. You’ll be instantly greeted like family when you walk up to the window to order, an infectiously warm energy I carry with me long after I stop for a coffee.

Honestly, the friendly staff are enough to make me want to visit when I’m in the area, but the coffee is just as lovely. The banana bread latte is always fun; the warmly spiced Petra latte is worth a try too (fitting, as they have another location in Jordan ). No matter what drink you choose, chances are you’ll receive one of their sweet little lucky ducks as a gift. We named our ducks Lemon and Lime, and they sit happily in our kitchen window at home.

→ Backyard Brew // 1218 East Blvd, Charlotte, NC 28203

—

Coco and the Director

Coco and the Director is a surprisingly spacious coffee shop located in the Charlotte Marriott City Center . With great coffee and plenty of space to spread out for work (the stadium seats are always a popular spot), it’s clear why it’s a favorite of the Uptown crowd.

As for me, I like to make the drive in on Sundays when parking is free. Coco and the Director makes their iced lattes extra strong, so even though you’re paying Uptown prices, it feels like you’re getting your money’s worth. Toss in a fun syrup if you like, but don’t skip the cronut. Made fresh in-house every morning, these heavenly pastries are the perfect complement to your coffee.

While you’re enjoying your afternoon treat, peruse the shelves lined with locally-made goods , and take home your new favorite find (personally, I’ve mentally bookmarked their selection for some local holiday gifting!).

→ Coco and the Director // 100 W Trade St, Charlotte, NC 28202

—

Cool Idiot Coffee

It seems that breweries are the new coffee shops, and Cool Idiot Coffee at HopFly Brewing Company is up on the latest trend. With beans from Asheville-based Rowan Coffee , I’d say this cart is much smarter than its name implies. You might even say it’s cool beans . Don’t worry, even I groaned as I typed that.

There are always some fun syrups on the menu, like Froot Loops or cookies and cream. Take your coffee to-go on a neighborhood stroll, or sit and relax in the airy taproom. With plenty of sunlight and room to spread out, it’s not a bad place to get a little work done. Feeling peckish? Muffins and Posh Tarts are available to round out the perfect AM treat.

→ Cool Idiot Coffee // 1327 S Mint St, Charlotte, NC 28203

—

Enderly Coffee Company

You may have guessed where this next shop is located based on its name: Enderly Coffee Company has been roasting beans and serving the community from the Enderly Park neighborhood since 2012. The company donates 100% of sales of their Foster Village Blend to Foster Village Charlotte, a local nonprofit dedicated to advocating for foster families in our community.

The Tuckaseegee coffee shop feels like a true neighborhood spot where you can linger to enjoy a warm beverage while catching up with friends. I can’t draw myself away from their batch brew, which is such a great value for a great cup to start my day, but I know plenty of folks who swear by their Chai.

Can’t make it to the Westside? Consider placing an order for their free Friday Delivery program, where they partner with area local businesses to bring coffee beans, baked goods, and more to your door free with a minimum order (including goodies from some of my personal favorite bakeries !).

→ Enderly Coffee Company // 2620 Tuckaseegee Rd, Charlotte, NC 28208

—

Haraz Coffee House

If you’ve been reading along for a while, you may notice that I rarely (I mean, almost never ) share chain spots on my website, so it’s a pretty big deal that Haraz Coffee House is on this list. This Yemeni coffee shop launched in Michigan and has expanded to ten locations with many more on the way.

Since the Charlotte location opened in early 2024, I’m pretty sure there hasn’t been an empty seat in the Plaza Midwood space. It’s easy to see why—it feels downright divine to be able to sit and order a pot of spiced coffee or tea served tableside in this day and age.

With prices higher than most of the coffee shops on this list, I treat my visits to Haraz just like that: as a special treat. The Pistachio Latte always calls to me when I want something a little sweet (I order it iced with oat milk and half the usual sweetener); the drink is just as rich and delicious as it is beautiful. Haraz is a great place to meet with friends and try something new—if you can get a table.

→ Haraz Coffee House // 1204 Central Ave #100, Charlotte, NC 28204

—

HEX Coffee, Kitchen & Natural Wines

Feeling sleepy at Camp North End? HEX Coffee, Kitchen & Natural Wines is a roastery and coffee shop ready to help perk you back up.

Though the brand has evolved over the course of my time living in Charlotte, the quality has remained consistently high. If I’m feeling thrifty, I’ll go for a filter coffee, but occasionally I’ll splurge on an espresso + milk or a specialty beverage (though I might grumble at the $1 upcharge for a couple of ounces of oat milk). And depending on the day, I may even eye some of their natural wines to take home.

→ HEX Coffee, Kitchen & Natural Wines // 201 Camp Rd #103, Charlotte, NC 28206

—

Night Swim Coffee

The owners of local coffee shops Not Just Coffee and Undercurrent Coffee joined forces, and Night Swim Coffee was born. Though the roastery has only been open for a few years, there are already four satellite cafes across the city center.

I’ve only had the chance to visit the Roastery and Oakhurst locations, which both remind me of Scandinavian coffee shops with clean, bright interiors and minimalist furniture. Their coffee reminds me of Scandi coffee shop coffee as well, coincidentally also a little lighter and brighter. I generally prefer unsweetened coffee beverages, unless a fun flavor catches my eye. The Maple Cardamom is always there to sway me, and if I feel like spending an extra buck I’ll add some in.

Night Swim’s focus on quality is evident not only in their coffee but also in their ability to create a welcoming atmosphere. The Oakhurst location, in particular, is perfect for leisurely mornings or casual meetups, offering plenty of natural light and an unhurried environment. It’s where I’ll often head after picking up a loaf of Verdant bread.

→ Night Swim Coffee // Multiple Locations

—

Not Just Coffee

Not Just Coffee is a sister brand to Night Swim Coffee, now serving beverages made with Night Swim beans, but they’ve been a staple in the Charlotte area since 2011. With five locations to choose from, my favorite is their Jay Street location because it feels like a community gathering spot and parking isn’t too much of a hassle.

Each location has its own flair—and in some cases, its own special menu. The team regularly updates their Instagram with the current offerings at each location, so keep an eye out for something tasty-sounding. I’m typically holding tight to my batch brew, unless it’s beer o’clock.

Not Just Coffee’s name stems from their commitment to quality and community—that is, caring about people, too (and not just coffee).

→ Not Just Coffee // Multiple Locations

—

Provided Coffee

Provided Coffee is a pocket-sized coffee shop in Uptown’s First Ward neighborhood. And as the only coffee shop for blocks, you could say it’s somewhat of an oasis. Edit : Provided Coffee has closed its Uptown location and moved to NoDa instead.

What we now know as Provided Uptown was conceived by a duo of 18-year-olds, transforming from a coffee cart to two locations, and the owners pride themselves on simultaneously owning one of the largest ( Concord ) and smallest (Uptown) coffee shops in the state. I can only speak to the Charlotte location, which is indeed tiny but big on atmosphere.

The espresso-based drinks reign supreme here, and you can find me scooting in the door for a perfectly made cortado anytime I’m in the neighborhood.

→ Provided Coffee // now at 3100 N Davidson St, Charlotte, NC 28205

—

Rosie’s Coffee & Wine Garden

Even though “coffee” is listed first in their name, most people tend to associate Rosie’s Coffee & Wine Garden with wine more (I can’t say I blame them because it is such a lovely place to have a glass of wine !). But every morning at 8 a.m., Rosie’s opens with a menu of espresso classics.

Choose your favorite (I’m an iced coffee girly if the sun is already scorching), and stroll out the door and through The McGill Rose Garden. The loveliest thing about Rosie’s is that it’s never the same place twice—the garden reinvents itself over and over as the seasons change. Note , The McGill Rose Garden occasionally closes for weddings and events; be sure to check the calendar before your visit, particularly on the weekends.

→ Rosie’s Coffee & Wine Garden // 940 N Davidson St, Charlotte, NC 28206

—

Sumaq Coffee

Venture a little further south on South Boulevard to Sumaq Coffee and you’ll be rewarded with the flavors of Peru. Every time I visit, I swear I’m going to try something new, but I just can’t seem to stop ordering the Sumaq Latte with brown sugar and cinnamon. Even iced, it’s like a warm, toasty hug in a cup.

I haven’t had the chance to cowork from this spot, but there always seems to be a few free seats and plenty of outlets. The food menu looks incredible as well (and prices are so reasonable!), so you could really stay and hang all day.

Sumaq is a little further from the city center, but well worth the miles.

→ Sumaq Coffee // 6259 South Blvd, Charlotte, NC 28217

—

Stable Hand

Not to sound like a hipster, but I’ve been going to Stable Hand since before it was Stable Hand *hair toss*. All kidding aside, this South End coffee shop is one I frequent most, thanks to its proximity to my house and the fact that it has parking. And of course, because the coffee and menu are delicious (why would I spend my time or money on something that wasn’t?).

With HEX beans—they’re siblings—naturally, everything is well-crafted. A drip coffee is an easy yes, but so are their seasonal drinks. I appreciate that the team isn’t afraid to go big or get a little funky with their flavors (white miso butterscotch, anyone?).

Grab one and feel free to hang with your laptop among everyone else getting a little work done—even if it’s crowded, it’s usually nice and quiet.

→ Stable Hand // 125 Remount Rd B, Charlotte, NC 28203

—

Summit Coffee Co.

What started as a coffee shop in downtown Davidson is now a full-fledged operation across North Carolina and Georgia. I’ve had the pleasure of visiting several of Summit Coffee Co. ‘s locations, and always find a smooth ordering experience with friendly service.

After leaving with an $8 latte one day and wondering how , I’ve decided to keep my visits to batch brew only. But that’s not a bad thing—everything is roasted up in Cornelius, so it’s all local and fresh. Sip your coffee in a for-here mug for the best Summit experience (that’s what I usually do at their location on The Plaza!).

→ Summit Coffee Co. // Multiple Locations

—

Undercurrent Coffee

Float on over to one of Undercurrent Coffee ‘s two locations for more of your favorite blends or single-origin coffees from Night Swim. The Plaza Midwood location is great for looping into a neighborhood stroll or getting a little work done, while the Optimist Hall stall means you can grab your coffee and hang with your non-coffee friends.

I tend to find myself at the Optimist Hall spot more, where I’m likely ordering the seasonal bev (a recent lavender latte was perfectly balanced without veering into soap territory). This location also has some of the best-value midday food items at OH, in my humble, budget-conscious opinion. Don’t worry—the Plaza Midwood location also runs a menu full of brunchy faves.

→ Undercurrent Coffee // Multiple Locations

—

Wooden Robot Coffee

Yep, another brewery with a coffee shop! Wooden Robot Coffee is located alongside the main taproom, serving up espresso-based drinks starting at 8 a.m. during the work week. My go-to here is either a cortado or a cold brew (I should note that while they’ve always had a pour-over listed on the menu during my visits, I’ve never been successful in ordering one).

The patio is a great place to get a little work done al fresco before South End starts to go out for after-work drinks, and if you’re hanging around for lunch, the burger special is a great deal for just $10. In any case, free parking across the street makes this an easy stop!

→ Wooden Robot Coffee // 1440 S Tryon St #109, Charlotte, NC 28203

ON THE MAP: CHARLOTTE’S BEST COFFEE SHOPS

NEXT ON MY LIST

Because I’m always scoping out something new or new to me:

Platform Coffee – This rebranding of a Westside favorite has made a splash in just a short time; I’ve already visited once but need to return before including it here.

Vavela Cafe – I’m not up in the University area often, but I’ve heard so many great things about this place that I need to make the trip sometime!

Waterbean Coffee – With approximately one million locations in the area (okay, I’m exaggerating, but it’s a pretty high number), it’s easy to forget that Waterbean is a local venture. I’ve previously visited one location for a tasty ube latte, but just need to go back before they can make it on the list.

Know of a coffee shop you think should be on this list? Consider nominating it and supporting this ad-free local resource by buying me a coffee !

FINAL THOUGHTS ON CHARLOTTE’S COFFEE SCENE

Charlotte’s coffee scene doesn’t receive nearly as much attention as our brewery scene, but there’s still so much to explore and enjoy in this category. From cozy lounge-like, neighborhood coffee shops to sleek modern roasteries, there’s a home-away-from-home for every type of coffee drinker. Bookmark this post for next time you’re planning a trip to the Queen City (or for when you’re starting to feel a little sleepy), and get ready to switch up your coffee routine.

—

Questions for you

What is your usual coffee order?

Be honest: how many cups do you drink in a day?

Thirsty for more? You may also like:

The Sweetest Spots in the Queen City: A Guide to Charlotte’s Best Bakeries

Shop Local: 10 Charlotte Shops You Should Know About

Summer Reign in the Queen City: The Ultimate Summer Weekend Travel Guide for Charlotte, North Carolina

Traveling Light: A Packing List for Charlotte, North Carolina

My Best Tips for Secondhand Shopping and My Favorite Charlotte Thrift Stores

Checking In: A Luxurious Stay in the Heart of Charlotte at The Ivey’s Hotel

A Romantic Staycation at The Dunhill Hotel in Charlotte, NC

Checking In: A Review of Kimpton Tryon Park Hotel in Charlotte + Meow’s First Hotel Stay

Charming Charlotte Date Night Restaurants That Won’t Break the Bank

Charlotte Uncorked: My Go-To Wine Bars in the Queen City

Queen City on Tap: A Review of Every Charlotte Brewery

Charlotte Restaurant Review: Restaurant Constance

Charlotte Restaurant Review: Supperland

A Local’s Guide to Charlotte’s Best Museums

Every Essential Day Trip from Charlotte, North Carolina

Five North Carolina Bakeries to Add to Your Travel Itinerary

12 Things You Should Know Before Riding Amtrak’s Piedmont Train

Beyond the City: A Day Trip Guide to Matthews, North Carolina

A Perfect Day Trip of Shopping and Dining in York County, South Carolina

How to Brew Great Coffee at Home with a Chemex

All Travel Guides by Destination

Shop My Closet

Exclusive Discounts + Promo Codes